# Sentiment-Analysis-Docker-API

elcome to the Text Classification API repository! This API utilizes a pre-trained Hugging Face Transformer model to perform sentiment analysis on text. It's built using FastAPI and containerized with Docker for easy deployment and scalability.

## Features
- Sentiment Analysis: Analyze text to determine if the sentiment is positive, negative, or neutral.
- FastAPI Framework: Fast and robust API framework with automatic interactive API documentation.
- Docker Integration: Containerized application for straightforward setup and deployment.

## Prerequisites
Before you begin, ensure you have Docker installed on your machine. If you don't have Docker yet, you can download it from Docker Hub.


## Text Classification API Setup Guide

To get started, clone the repository to your local machine:


### Clone the repository
``` git clone https://github.com/Novera-123/Sentiment-Analysis-Docker-API.git
cd text-classification-api
```

#### Build the Docker container
```bash
docker build -t text-classification-api .
```

### Run the Container
Once the build is complete, you can run the container:
```
docker run -p 8000:8000 text-classification-api
```
### Access the API
The API is now running at http://localhost:8000. You can interact with the API directly or use the automatic documentation provided by FastAPI at http://localhost:8000/docs for a more interactive experience.

### API Endpoints
- GET /: A simple welcome message to ensure the API is operational.
- POST /analyze: Endpoint to analyze the sentiment of provided text. Accepts JSON input containing a "text" field.

### Running Tests
To run automated tests for the API, execute the following command:

### Example request for /analyze endpoint:
```
{
  "text": "I love this product!"
}
```
### Running Tests
To run automated tests for the API, execute the following command:
```
pytest

```
## Documentation
The API documentation is automatically generated by FastAPI and is available at http://localhost:8000/docs. This includes detailed information about the endpoints, expected input, and formats.

## Deployment
For instructions on deploying this API to Hugging Face Spaces or other environments, refer to the provided deployment guidelines in this repository.

Hugging face link : https://huggingface.co/spaces/Noveramaaz/Sentiment_analysis_docker_API

## Contributing
Feel free to fork this repository and submit pull requests to contribute to its development. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

## License
This project is licensed under the apache - 2.0 License.
